.\" Manpage for AcousticSolver
.\" Contact c.cantwell@imperial.ac.uk to correct errors or typos
.TH man 1 "07 Aug 2019" "5.0" "AcousticSolver man page"
.SH NAME
AcousticSolver \- predicts acoustic wave propagation
.SH SYNOPSIS
AcousticSolver [ option(s) ] [ [ session.xml ] ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B AcousticSolver
predicts acoustic wave propagation using the spectral/hp element method. It is built on the
.B Nektar++
high-order spectral/hp element framework. It utilises a splitting technique
which decouples the flow-induced acoustic field from the underlying hydrodynamic
field.

The
.B AcousticSolver
can solve two types of problems:
.IP \(em 3
Linearised Euler Equations
.IP \(em 3
Acoustic Perturbation Equations (APE-1/APE-4)
.SS Further information
For further details and specific configuration options, please consult the
.B Nektar++ user guide
available from the website \(la www.nektar.info \(ra.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS General Options
.TP 4
.B \-h [ \-\-help ]
.TP 4
.B \-I [ \-\-solverinfo ] arg
Overrides a SOLVERINFO property in the XML input files.
.TP 4
.B \-P [ \-\-parameter ] arg
Overrides a PARAMETER in the XML input files.
.TP 4
.B \-v [ \-\-verbose ]
Displays additional diagnostic information during the solver execution.
.TP 4
.B \-V [ \-\-version ]
Prints the version of the Nektar++.
.SS Parallelisation Options
.TP 4
.B \-\-npx arg
Specifies the number of processes in the x-direction.
.TP 4
.B \-\-npy arg
Specifies the number of processes in the y-direction.
.TP 4
.B \-\-npz arg
Specifies the number of processes in the z-direction.
.TP 4
.B \-\-part-info
Output partition information.
.TP 4
.B \-\-part-only N
Partitions the input mesh into N partitions and exits.
.TP 4
.B \-\-part-only-overlapping N
Partitions mesh into N overlapping partitions and exits.
.TP 4
.B \-\-use-ptscotch
Use PT-Scotch for parallel mesh partitioning.
.TP 4
.B \-\-use-scotch
Use Scotch for mesh partitioning.

.SH EXAMPLE
To run the solver on a single input file which contains both the geometry and
the solver parameter specifications

.RS
.B AcousticSolver session.xml
.RE

It is often helpful to separate the geometry specification from the remaining
solver parameters. In this case multiple .xml files may be provided

.RS
.B AcousticSolver session.xml conditions.xml
.RE

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
Chris Cantwell (c.cantwell@imperial.ac.uk)
