.\" Manpage for CardiacEPSolver
.\" Contact c.cantwell@imperial.ac.uk to correct errors or typos
.TH man 1 "07 Aug 2019" "5.0" "CardiacEPSolver man page"
.SH NAME
CardiacEPSolver \- solves models of action potential propagation
.SH SYNOPSIS
CardiacEPSolver [ option(s) ] [ [ session.xml ] ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B CardiacEPSolver
solves models of action potential propagation in cardiac tissue using the spectral/hp element method. It is built on the
.B Nektar++
high-order spectral/hp element framework. These models are continuum models and
represent the average of electrical activity over many cells. They are
reaction-diffusion systems, where the reaction terms models the flow of ions in
and out of a cell as a system of ordinary differential equations. 

The
.B CardiacEPSolver
can solve the following models
.RS
.IP \(em 3
Monodomain equation
.IP \(em 3
Bidomain equation
.RE

These are coupled to a model of the cardiac action potential. Available models
include:
.RS
.IP \(em 3
Aliev-Panfilov
.IP \(em 3
Courtemanche-Ramirez-Nattel
.IP \(em 3
Fenton-Karma
.IP \(em 3
Fitzhugh-Nagumo
.IP \(em 3
Luo-Rudy
.IP \(em 3
Ten-Tusscher
.RE

among others.

.SS Further information
For further details and specific configuration options, please consult the
.B Nektar++ user guide
available from the website \(la www.nektar.info \(ra.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS General Options
.TP 4
.B \-h [ \-\-help ]
.TP 4
.B \-I [ \-\-solverinfo ] arg
Overrides a SOLVERINFO property in the XML input files.
.TP 4
.B \-P [ \-\-parameter ] arg
Overrides a PARAMETER in the XML input files.
.TP 4
.B \-v [ \-\-verbose ]
Displays additional diagnostic information during the solver execution.
.TP 4
.B \-V [ \-\-version ]
Prints the version of the Nektar++.
.SS Parallelisation Options
.TP 4
.B \-\-npx arg
Specifies the number of processes in the x-direction.
.TP 4
.B \-\-npy arg
Specifies the number of processes in the y-direction.
.TP 4
.B \-\-npz arg
Specifies the number of processes in the z-direction.
.TP 4
.B \-\-part-info
Output partition information.
.TP 4
.B \-\-part-only N
Partitions the input mesh into N partitions and exits.
.TP 4
.B \-\-part-only-overlapping N
Partitions mesh into N overlapping partitions and exits.
.TP 4
.B \-\-use-ptscotch
Use PT-Scotch for parallel mesh partitioning.
.TP 4
.B \-\-use-scotch
Use Scotch for mesh partitioning.

.SH EXAMPLE
To run the solver on a single input file which contains both the geometry and
the solver parameter specifications

.RS
.B CardiacEPSolver session.xml
.RE

It is often helpful to separate the geometry specification from the remaining
solver parameters. In this case multiple .xml files may be provided

.RS
.B CardiacEPSolver session.xml conditions.xml
.RE

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
Chris Cantwell (c.cantwell@imperial.ac.uk)
