.\" Manpage for FieldConvert
.\" Contact c.cantwell@imperial.ac.uk to correct errors or typos
.TH man 1 "07 Aug 2019" "5.0" "FieldConvert man page"
.SH NAME
FieldConvert \- post-process Nektar++ field files
.SH SYNOPSIS
FieldConvert [ option(s) ] input output
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B FieldConvert
is a utility primarily for the conversion of
.B Nektar++
output binary files into a range of other visualisation formats for analysis.
It is built on the
.B Nektar++
high-order spectral/hp element framework.

It also includes a range of modules for manipulating the output, such as
computing derived fields, extracting planes and isosurfaces or interpolating
onto other grids or point distributions.

.SS Further information
For further details and specific configuration options, please consult the
.B Nektar++ user guide
available from the website \(la www.nektar.info \(ra.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS General Options
.TP 4
.B \-h [ \-\-help ]
Print the help message.
.TP 4
.B \-r [ \-\-range ] arg
Define output range to process, where
.I arg
is specified as
.I xmin,xmax,ymin,ymax,zmin,zmax
.TP 4
.B \-v [ \-\-verbose ]
Displays additional diagnostic information during the solver execution.
.TP 4
.B \-V [ \-\-version ]
Prints the version of the Nektar++.

.SS Modules and Module Options
.TP 4
.B \-l [ \-\-modules-list ]
Print the list of available modules.
.TP 4
.B \-m [ \-\-module ] arg
Specify module to be used.
.TP 4
.B \-p [ \-\-modules-opt ] arg
Print options for the module given by
.I arg

.SS Advanced Options
.TP 4
.B \-e [ \-\-error ]
Write error of fields for regression checking.
.TP 4
.B \-f [ \-\-forceoutput ]
Force the output to be written without any checks.
.TP 4
.B \-n [ \-\-output-points ] arg
Output at n equispaced points along the collapsed coordinate (for .dat, .vtu).
.TP 4
.B \-\-noequispaced
Do not use equispaced output.
.TP 4
.B \-\-onlyshape arg
Only use element with defined shape, where
.I arg
is, for example,
.I Tetrahedron
.TP 4
.B \-\-output-points-hom-z arg
Specify number of planes in the z-direction for output of Homogeneous 1D
expansions (for .dat, .vtu).
.TP 4
.B \-\-useSessionVariables
Use variables defined in session for output.
.TP 4
.B \-\-useSessionExpansion
Use expansion defined in session.

.SS Parallelisation Options
.TP 4
.B \-\-nparts arg
Process partitions of parallel run in serial. The
.I arg
parameter specifies the number of partitions in the input field file.
.TP 4
.B \-\-npz arg
Specifies the number of processes in the z-direction.
.TP 4
.B \-\-part-only N
Partitions the input mesh into N partitions and exits.
.TP 4
.B \-\-part-only-overlapping N
Partitions mesh into N overlapping partitions and exits.
.TP 4
.B \-\-use-ptscotch
Use PT-Scotch for parallel mesh partitioning.
.TP 4
.B \-\-use-scotch
Use Scotch for mesh partitioning.

.SH EXAMPLE
To compute the vorticity field
.RS
.B FieldConvert -m vorticity in.xml in.fld out_vorticity.fld
.RE

To convert a field file to an unstructured VTK file
.RS
.B FieldConvert in.xml in.fld out.vtu
.RE

To compute vorticity and write output to an unstructured VTK file
.RS
.B FieldConvert -m vorticity in.xml in.fld out_vorticity.vtu
.RE

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
Chris Cantwell (c.cantwell@imperial.ac.uk)
