.\" Manpage for IncNavierStokesSolver
.\" Contact c.cantwell@imperial.ac.uk to correct errors or typos
.TH man 1 "07 Aug 2019" "5.0" "IncNavierStokesSolver man page"
.SH NAME
IncNavierStokesSolver \- solves incompressible flow problems
.SH SYNOPSIS
IncNavierStokesSolver [ option(s) ] [ [ session.xml ] ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B IncNavierStokesSolver
solves the incompressible form of the Navier-Stokes partial differential
equations using the spectral/hp element method. It is built on the
.B Nektar++
high-order spectral/hp element framework.

The
.B IncNavierStokesSolver
uses a velocity-correction splitting scheme to reduce the solution of a vector
form of the Navier-Stokes equations to a series of scalar problems. The
non-linear advection terms are evaluated, followed by solving a pressure Poisson
problem. Finally, a set of Helmholtz problems are solved to correct the velocity
for the computed pressure field. The solver uses a semi-implicit
time-integration scheme with the advection term evaluated explicitly and the
Poisson and Helmholtz problems being evaluated implicitly.

.SS Further information
For further details and specific configuration options, please consult the
.B Nektar++ user guide
available from the website \(la www.nektar.info \(ra.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS General Options
.TP 4
.B \-h [ \-\-help ]
.TP 4
.B \-I [ \-\-solverinfo ] arg
Overrides a SOLVERINFO property in the XML input files.
.TP 4
.B \-P [ \-\-parameter ] arg
Overrides a PARAMETER in the XML input files.
.TP 4
.B \-v [ \-\-verbose ]
Displays additional diagnostic information during the solver execution.
.TP 4
.B \-V [ \-\-version ]
Prints the version of the Nektar++.
.SS Parallelisation Options
.TP 4
.B \-\-npx arg
Specifies the number of processes in the x-direction.
.TP 4
.B \-\-npy arg
Specifies the number of processes in the y-direction.
.TP 4
.B \-\-npz arg
Specifies the number of processes in the z-direction.
.TP 4
.B \-\-part-info
Output partition information.
.TP 4
.B \-\-part-only N
Partitions the input mesh into N partitions and exits.
.TP 4
.B \-\-part-only-overlapping N
Partitions mesh into N overlapping partitions and exits.
.TP 4
.B \-\-use-ptscotch
Use PT-Scotch for parallel mesh partitioning.
.TP 4
.B \-\-use-scotch
Use Scotch for mesh partitioning.

.SH EXAMPLE
To run the solver on a single input file which contains both the geometry and
the solver parameter specifications

.RS
.B IncNavierStokesSolver session.xml
.RE

It is often helpful to separate the geometry specification from the remaining
solver parameters. In this case multiple .xml files may be provided

.RS
.B IncNavierStokesSolver session.xml conditions.xml
.RE

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
Chris Cantwell (c.cantwell@imperial.ac.uk)
