.\" Manpage for PulseWaveSolver
.\" Contact c.cantwell@imperial.ac.uk to correct errors or typos
.TH man 1 "07 Aug 2019" "5.0" "PulseWaveSolver man page"
.SH NAME
PulseWaveSolver \- models pressure-wave propagation in 1D vasculature
.SH SYNOPSIS
PulseWaveSolver [ option(s) ] [ [ session.xml ] ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B PulseWaveSolver
solves 1D partial differential equations governing conservation of mass and
momentum in a network of arteries using the spectral/hp element method. It is built on the
.B Nektar++
high-order spectral/hp element framework.

.SS Further information
For further details and specific configuration options, please consult the
.B Nektar++ user guide
available from the website \(la www.nektar.info \(ra.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS General Options
.TP 4
.B \-h [ \-\-help ]
.TP 4
.B \-I [ \-\-solverinfo ] arg
Overrides a SOLVERINFO property in the XML input files.
.TP 4
.B \-P [ \-\-parameter ] arg
Overrides a PARAMETER in the XML input files.
.TP 4
.B \-v [ \-\-verbose ]
Displays additional diagnostic information during the solver execution.
.TP 4
.B \-V [ \-\-version ]
Prints the version of the Nektar++.
.SS Parallelisation Options
.TP 4
.B \-\-npx arg
Specifies the number of processes in the x-direction.
.TP 4
.B \-\-npy arg
Specifies the number of processes in the y-direction.
.TP 4
.B \-\-npz arg
Specifies the number of processes in the z-direction.
.TP 4
.B \-\-part-info
Output partition information.
.TP 4
.B \-\-part-only N
Partitions the input mesh into N partitions and exits.
.TP 4
.B \-\-part-only-overlapping N
Partitions mesh into N overlapping partitions and exits.
.TP 4
.B \-\-use-ptscotch
Use PT-Scotch for parallel mesh partitioning.
.TP 4
.B \-\-use-scotch
Use Scotch for mesh partitioning.

.SH EXAMPLE
To run the solver on a single input file which contains both the geometry and
the solver parameter specifications

.RS
.B PulseWaveSolver session.xml
.RE

It is often helpful to separate the geometry specification from the remaining
solver parameters. In this case multiple .xml files may be provided

.RS
.B PulseWaveSolver session.xml conditions.xml
.RE

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
Chris Cantwell (c.cantwell@imperial.ac.uk)
